SSD Data Recovery Best Practices


Understanding the subtle and sometimes silent signs of a failing SSD, could be helpful in detecting a failing SSD before complete failure. Being able to detect a failing SSD, could be the difference between planned downtime and forced downtime. 


“Here are some of the most common indicators that your SSD may be approaching its read/write cycle limit or is experiencing physical issues:

Bad blocks. All storage forms are vulnerable to flawed memory. In an SSD, this takes the form of “bad blocks”—storage segments that, through memory corruption or physical damage, impede data storage and retrieval functions.
An SSD suffering from bad blocks may exhibit a few key symptoms. Saving, reading, and moving files may result in failure; active applications may operate slowly or frequently crash; the user may receive prompts to repair the file system; and general performance may steadily decrease, especially when handling large files.

If you observe any of the above symptoms in an SSD and suspect a storage drive may have bad blocks, the best course of action is to run software that searches for physical defects. If the software discovers physical damage, you’ll want to back up essential files and replace your SSD.

File system repair. If a computer or file system requires repair but physical defect software shows no damage, this could indicate an issue with the connector port. Before taking any action, back up integral files. Then you can proceed to repair the system—Mac OS users can use Disk Utility, Linux users can run the fsck utility, and users running a different operating system (OS) can investigate other freeware and premium software options.
Crashing. If a computer crashes while booting up but seems to work normally after several reboots, the SSD is probably failing. In this case, you can try a couple of things: run software to assess the performance and health of your SSD, or reinstall your OS after you’ve cleared data on the partition set. Even if effectively formatting the drive troubleshoots the issue in the short term, you’ll want to be totally certain the SSD won’t die anytime soon.
Read-only mode. While somewhat less common, it is possible for SSDs to cease functioning except in read-only mode. In the event that an SSD will not operate except to perform read-only functions, the drive is most likely corrupted. You’ll want to save important data by backing up before seeking a solution.” (https://www.n-able.com/blog/ssd-data-recovery-best-practices)



 
How to Erase a Hard Drive Using DBAN

Hard drives contain all sorts of personal and private information, so ensuring that once a computer is no longer functional the hard drive is disposed of properly is very important to the life cycle and keeping the integrity of the information intact. Although the computer itself may no longer be functional, the information on the hard drive still remains. 

“Darik's Boot And Nuke (DBAN) is an entirely free data destruction program used to completely erase all the files on a hard drive.

This includes everything—every installed application, all your personal files, and even the operating system.

DBAN has to run while the operating system isn't in use so you'll need to burn the program to a disc (CD, DVD, USB) and run it from there.

This article is a complete walkthrough on using DBAN, which covers downloading the program to your computer, burning it to a bootable device, and erasing all the files.” (https://www.lifewire.com/how-to-erase-a-hard-drive-using-dban-2619148)


